Slampler - Slug Sample Player
=============================

Version 1.0 (more or less)

Foot-friendly, stage-ready sample player

Copyright (C) Jean Zundel <jzu@free.fr> 2010-2011

The **slampler** is a sample player designed for the Linksys NSLU2 running
GNU/Linux, but it works on any ALSA-based architecture.  It is licensed under
the GNU GPL v3.

[http://jzu.blog.free.fr/index.php?tag/Slampler](http://jzu.blog.free.fr/index.php?tag/Slampler)

COMPILATION
-----------

Just type `make` and you're done. You'll need libasound2 and libpthread
libraries (+devel), and gcc.


TESTING
-------

Running it as root allows to use the Slug's LEDs.

This program needs an USB joystick - or something similar - to operate
in "production mode". For testing purposes, another thread reads STDIN and
scans characters you can map with samples. It currently manages up to eight
samples per bank, but there's room for expansion. You will need to tinker with
`#define`s to map the physical controls with the soft switches.

The `-d` option ouputs debug messages, ALSA errors and joystick events.

The `/data` directory should contain NBANKS (3 by default) directories 
containing NSMPLS (5 by default) samples which will be read in
alphabetical order (case-sensitive), allowing a fixed sample/switch
mapping.


RUNNING
-------

Once you're all set, you want to edit `/etc/inittab` to insert this line:

    sl:23:respawn:/[PATH_TO]/slampler

(obviously replacing `[PATH_TO]` with its actual path)
which will ensure that `init(8)` restarts the program when it is stopped.

`telinit q` will re-read the inittab file.

Mounting the `/` filesystem read-only prevents data corruption, but you have to
create ramdisks for `/tmp` and `/var/run` directories in `/etc/fstab`.

    /dev/sda2       /    ext3    ro         0 0
    (...)
    none       /tmp      ramfs   size=512k  0 0
    none       /var/run  ramfs   size=512k  0 0

The `datamount` process is optional. Running it requires this line in 
`/etc/inittab`:

    dt:23:respawn:/[PATH_TO]/datamount


CAVEAT
------

Debian is perfect for programming/compiling/debugging, but 
another distro might be more adequate for everyday use.
See [OpenEmbedded](http://wiki.openembedded.net/) and others.

Almost any USB audio interface will do. These el cheapo ($3 on eBay)
C-Sound/3D Sound dongles, however, should be avoided, unless you
like hiss and rumble. Mine registers in dmesg with a line containing
`idVendor=0c76, idProduct=1607`. Currently, I use an ART USB Phono
Plus with good results - I have yet to give the Behringer UFO202 
($27) a try.

Using a memory stick containing the samples is not as trivial as it seems. If
you plug it directly in one of the Slug's USB internal ports, it will be
detected *before* the boot USB key and the system will hang. Autofs doesn't
help us very much here since the directory is already used by the running
process, which has been started by inittab - even when stopping/restarting the
process. 

This is why datamount has been written, which detects insertion or removal of
the device and `(u)mount`s it accordingly, restarting the `slampler` process.


<!-- Convert to HTML using markdown -->
